OARnet One Time Password system quick start:

    Your account on XXX.YYY.oar.net now requires the use of a One Time
    Password (OTP) to login.  The algorithm used is called the HMAC-Based
    One-Time Password Algorithm (HOTP) and is described by RFC 4226.

    You have been supplied with a Spyrus Smart Card reader and BasicCard
    Smart Card.  The OTP is generated on the smart card and displayed on
    the reader.  The Smart Card should not be removed from the reader.

    Press the Card/On button to begin.

    Your PIN is a 5 digit number and will initially be 28165. Enter 28165
    then press the Enter key.  The Clear key can be used to clear an
    incorrect PIN before pressing Enter.

    The OARnet/Verified message will be displayed when the PIN has been
    correctly entered.

    Press the * key to set your own 5 digit Personal Identification Number.
    The PIN must be kept secret and can not be shared.  Enter your new 5
    digit PIN then press enter.  The reader will prompt for the PIN again to
    confirm the entry is correct.  Confirm by pressing enter and a message
    is displayed indicating your new PIN is active.  Press any key or
    wait a few seconds for the main screen.  The default PIN can not be used
    to generate a One Time Password.

    Press the down arrow to start a menu listing hosts configured on the
    Smart Card.  The Up and Down arrows can be used to scroll through
    the host list.  The first two digits before the host are the index
    which can be used as a shortcut without use of the menu.  Enter will choose
    the host and generate the One Time Password.  Pressing # before Enter
    will permit a challenge to be entered before the HOTP generation.  This
    feature is used to re-synch a card, or used with systems configured for
    shared keys.  Typically the challenge is a monotonically increasing 32
    bit number which will automatically be synchronized with the host system
    on every HOTP generation.  The challenge may be presented during
    HOTP generation for some systems automatically.
    
    If the index of the host is known the menu can be skipped by
    entering the two digit host index or a one digit host index followed
    by Enter.  Pressing Enter alone will select the first index, which
    for convenience will be configured as the host most often required.
    Clear will reset the digits.  The # key will allow a challenge entry
    as described above.  Using the host shortcut method to select a host
    will extend the battery life as opposed to using the menu.

    Select XXX.YYY to generate the host HOTP.

    The Spyrus reader will now display the host name you selected and
    your one time password.  The OTP is a 40 bit number expressed
    in base 16 (hexadecimal).  Hexadecimal digits are 0-9 and A-F,
    so your OTP may be 9ADF0D05A0.  The OTP is not case sensitive.

    To log in to XXX use ssh and enter your password as usual.  An
    additional HOTP Challenge prompt will appear after your password
    has been entered.  Enter the OTP generated from the Spyrus reader.

    If ssh provides a message similar to "WARNING: REMOTE HOST
    IDENTIFICATION HAS CHANGED!" do not attempt to login.  This
    indicates your connection is not secure and typing your username,
    password, and OTP may be used to gain access to this system
    by an intruder using your username and password.  Contact
    your systems administrator.

    The Challenge number must remain loosely synchronized between
    the login server and the Smart Card.  Generating an OTP and
    not using it to login can cause loss of synchronization.
    If 10 OTP's are generated without a successful login your
    card and login will become unsynchronized and need to be reset.

    The card protects itself from unauthorized use with a PIN.  If
    an incorrect PIN is used 10 times in a row the card will become
    disabled and require a systems administrator to reset it.

    Your Smart Card and reader is only for your use.  Nobody should
    ever ask to borrow it or use the generated OTP.  The OTP will
    only work for your login and password.  Remember you are directly
    responsible for activity with your account.

$Id: PAR2-USER-GENERIC 13 2009-11-26 16:37:03Z maf $

